README.md, before:

# Unix Voodoo

Basically a bunch of small scripts that make use of various tools common on unix systems (shell, sed, bc) to do surprising things

calc.sed
---

Simple calculator that can sum, multiply and parse parenthesis:

    > echo "(6 + (77 + 2 * 3)) * 14" | ./calc.sed 
    1246 

It doesn't (yet) work with zeros.

prime.sed
---

Prime checker. It's really slow, but it works :)

    > echo 43 | ./prime.sed
    true

sort.sed
---

Numeric sorting

    > echo 1 7 667 35 2 0 37 4 | ./sort.sed 
    0 1 2 4 7 35 37 667

r110.sed
---

Implementation of rule110 1D cellular automata, which is turing complete. Basically a very short proof of turing-completeness of sed.

    > echo '00000000000000000000000000000000000010' | ./r110.sed  | tr '01' '.#' | head -n 20
    ...................................##.
    ..................................###.
    .................................##.#.
    ................................#####.
    ...............................##...#.
    ..............................###..##.
    .............................##.#.###.
    ............................#######.#.
    ...........................##.....###.
    ..........................###....##.#.
    .........................##.#...#####.
    ........................#####..##...#.
    .......................##...#.###..##.
    ......................###..####.#.###.
    .....................##.#.##..#####.#.
    ....................########.##...###.
    ...................##......####..##.#.
    ..................###.....##..#.#####.
    .................##.#....###.####...#.
    ................#####...##.###..#..##.

cp.sh
---
Implementation of `cp` using pure bash. It works on binary files too!

    ./cp.sh a b

mandelbrot.bc
---

Straightforward program to draw mandelbrot set. Nothing really special.

Commit message:

Added an implementation of a cyclic-tag system emulator in sed.

README.md, after:

# Unix Voodoo

Basically a bunch of small scripts that make use of various tools common on unix systems (shell, sed, bc) to do surprising things

calc.sed
---

Simple calculator that can sum, multiply and parse parenthesis:

    > echo "(6 + (77 + 2 * 3)) * 14" | ./calc.sed 
    1246 

It doesn't (yet) work with zeros.

prime.sed
---

Prime checker. It's really slow, but it works :)

    > echo 43 | ./prime.sed
    true

sort.sed
---

Numeric sorting

    > echo 1 7 667 35 2 0 37 4 | ./sort.sed 
    0 1 2 4 7 35 37 667

r110.sed
---

Implementation of rule110 1D cellular automata, which is turing complete. Basically a very short proof of turing-completeness of sed.

    > echo '00000000000000000000000000000000000010' | ./r110.sed  | tr '01' '.#' | head -n 20
    ...................................##.
    ..................................###.
    .................................##.#.
    ................................#####.
    ...............................##...#.
    ..............................###..##.
    .............................##.#.###.
    ............................#######.#.
    ...........................##.....###.
    ..........................###....##.#.
    .........................##.#...#####.
    ........................#####..##...#.
    .......................##...#.###..##.
    ......................###..####.#.###.
    .....................##.#.##..#####.#.
    ....................########.##...###.
    ...................##......####..##.#.
    ..................###.....##..#.#####.
    .................##.#....###.####...#.
    ................#####...##.###..#..##.

cyclic-tag.sed
---

Implementation of a cyclic tag system in sed. Possibly the simplest proof of sed being turing complete when using only `s///` regexp syntax and a single loop.

It takes the initial word and production rules as an input, separated by '!'.

Running an [example cyclic-tag system from wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tag_system#Cyclic_tag_systems) with this code looks like this:

    > echo '11001!010!000!1111!' | ./cyclic-tag.sed | head


cp.sh
---
Implementation of `cp` using pure bash. It works on binary files too!

    ./cp.sh a b

mandelbrot.bc
---

Straightforward program to draw mandelbrot set. Nothing really special.
